can you name the guys who were picked
ahead of you Tom the quarterbacks Chad
Pennington was picked in the first round
Chris Redmond was picked in the third
round you have Reni Karma's he was
picked and a third round I think T
Martin was picked in the fifth round
Spurgeon Winn was picked um there was
one other guys small school guy Marc
Bulger in the 2000 NFL draft a
quarterback who would become one of the
best of all time was available
he wasn't the highest-rated he wasn't
the best athlete
he didn't have the best numbers
win a championship
have the best mechanics or the strongest
arm and he wasn't selected until pick
number 199
Tom Brady went in the sixth round and
six quarterbacks will take it ahead of
it what do you think makes a good ball
player Tom Brady knew as much then as
experts will tell you now it's not easy
to identify good players and even harder
to predict NFL quarterbacks when a coach
or a scout tells you that this guy has
the intangibles or we're looking for the
intangibles that's a euphemism for
saying we have no clue what we're
looking for we just know what when we
see it you know you have these guys that
are in college yeah they have the
ability to stand back there in the
pocket and throw it to this guy who's
open by ten yards okay do they have the
same ability to stand back in that
pocket when the guys hitting them and
throw it to a guy that's open by one
yard can you do it when the speeds
faster can you do it when you're getting
hit by somebody bigger can you do when
the defense you're seeing is more
complex nobody knows until they actually
get there Tom Brady reads defense is
better than any quarterback I know right
now it's not easy Tom Brady wasn't
something happens every year you're not
gonna find that sixth round quarterback
who becomes a hall-of-famer it's just
I'm gonna happen for a future
hall-of-famer Brady's early life in
football was a constant struggle for
recognition I'd like to introduce my
starting quarterback from this past
season Tom Brady if any colleges or
coaches are interested and seeing more
of Tom we have a whole list of halfway
that you can sort of look over the 10
game period of last season I never
played football till my freshman year
and as a freshman I was the backup
quarterback on a team that was Oh Nate
the team didn't score a touchdown and he
wasn't deemed good enough to play one
offensive play as a quarterback the only
reason why I played my sophomore year
was because the kid who was the freshman
quarterback stopped playing because I'm
not playing football anymore so I was
like I guess I'm gonna play and always
had a decent arm but I just really took
to the game Brady never developed into a
blue chip recruit but he caught the
attention of the maize and blue the
University of Michigan opened its doors
to it there were seven guys on the depth
chart when I got there Scott Dreisbach
who's the year ahead of me Brian Griese
who's a year ahead of that Jason Carr
was going into his fifth year Scott
Leffler was this highly recruited
quarterback out of Ohio I remember being
out there the first day of practice with
me like hey I'm better than these guys
now of course I wasn't but just that's
that was always my attitude by a
sophomore season Brady was pushing
number 14
senior Brian Griese for the starting job
greasy and Tommy were there a tie I mean
they're necking in it no one knew who
was gonna start and coach Carr's thing
was always the tie goes to the upper
classmen I remember Tommy being little
dog you know
mad about that and thought about
transferring and thought about going
back home to Cal or something like that
he came back the next day he sat down
right in front of my desk he said coach
I'm not gonna leave
and I'm gonna prove to you that I'm the
best quarterback there's no question as
I looked into his eyes he had a goal in
mind and he was not going to be denied
in his junior year Brady started every
game and won ten of his final 11 but to
remain the starter his senior season he
would have to fend off sophomore drew
Hansen before even coming to Michigan
Henson was a state hero a two-sport feel
for a high school 20 miles outside of in
our berths he probably was the most
highly touted athlete to come to
Michigan at least in my memory you know
he is incredible talents I mean faster
and I was stronger quicker more elusive
no better alarm boy Carson I've never
been around a guy that has this much
potential at the start of Brady's senior
season but tight quarterback battle did
not automatically go to the
upperclassmen as our starting
quarterback what time's the game 3:30
you'll see that Coach Carr said all
right Tommy you're gonna start the games
Drew's gonna play the second quarter
games then we're gonna decide you know
who plays after that he thought he had
two good quarterbacks wanted to play in
both and he was said he was going to go
with the hot hand a chance to talk to
some NFL personnel this one director of
player personnel said he understood why
Michigan is continuing to try to get
Henson more and more opportunities to go
out there and get experience because his
upside is so much higher been Tom
Brady's and I said yeah but Brady's the
guy with the experience he's the captain
10 wins last year he said yeah but he
doesn't play Henson he's got a problem
because then hits it's gonna go he's
gonna go play baseball tommy was a clerk
but he was the captain of that team he
was the leader of the team and he was
the best quarterback on that team Bardon
on a skinny guy in that team
with car juggling the quarterback's
Michigan won its first five games but
against Michigan State
the Wolverines got in a 17-point hole
with Henson and Brady was asked to dig
them out of it
[Applause]
Brady threw for 241 yards in the final
18 minutes and nearly brought Michigan
back after a 307 yard performance the
following week the quarterback
competition was over Brady really
separated himself the way he played and
that's when I decided Brady was gonna be
the quarterback and Drew was gonna be
the backup against Penn State Michigan
trailed by 10 in the final minutes
[Applause]
and the legend of the comeback kid was
born
there's no traitor leader in
intercollegiate athletics and Tom Brady
he's handled this difficult a coaching
decision this year in a way that only in
hands to stature among his teammates and
all those people in love measures
Brady's finest collegiate performance
was still to come
the Orange Bowl it's the last time I
take the field as a Wolverine where he
got down in the game 14 nothing and came
back a tied at 14-14 we got down 28 14
in the second half came back and made it
28 28 we went to overtime and I had a
bootleg and through it the Shawn
Thompson they scored and to make it 35
34 and they kick the extra point miss
the extra point we won in overtime
make no mistake Tom Brady careless
through that game the Alabama game in my
experience of Michigan is this final
performance at quarterback does anybody
ever had we kidded you about being the
comeback kid you didn't want to have to
wait till the fourth quarter to bring
the team back but you did a tremendous
job what better way to go out to fit
their senior the Orange Bowl victory he
would sink Brady's achievements at
Michigan would have won the admiration
of protein was looking for a quarterback
in the upcoming draft but it didn't
happen that way
Brady's struggle for recognition
continued only had one call from the NFL
Bobby Greer who was with the Patriots at
the time talked about they were gonna
draft a quarterback late I just said
Bobby I guarantee you you will never
regret drafting Tom Brady this is the
draft report on you basically it goes
poor billed skinny lacks great physical
stature and strength lacks mobility and
ability to avoid the rush lacks a really
strong arm can't drive the ball
downfield does not throw a really tight
spiral system type player who can get
exposed if forced to ad-lib and gets
knocked down easily that kind of gets me
fired up because I'd beg him you know
what the hell these people know I mean
that sounds like Joe Montana right there
Joe Montana as a kid and grew up 20
minutes from Candlestick Park that's
exactly who Tom Brady wanted to be we
used to be dyed-in-the-wool 49er fans
and we love Joe Montana best ever when I
was four years old my dad took me to one
of the games it was the NFC Championship
game in Dallas played the Niners at home
[Applause]
we were sitting in the end zone when
Dwight Clark made the catch in the 2000
NFL Draft the San Francisco 49ers were
one of the teams looking for a
quarterback we knew all about Tom Thomas
from Sarah high school right up the
street here at the combine when you
watch Tom you saw this tall gangly
looking kid look like having ever seen a
weight room ran a 5-2 something one of
the slowest quarterbacks in the combine
does he wow you throwing the ball mm-hmm
there was some other guys I could shoot
it and he had just an okay arm did his
coaches at Michigan really stand on the
table and say this is the greatest thing
since Joe Montana no not even close they
had to decide if it was a he or drew
Hansen
we even had a local combine in San
Francisco where the kids from the local
colleges or the local high schools can
come by and have a workout and tom was
there and Bill was there we were all
there in Tom to be quite honest did
nothing that would say hey we need to
draft this guy is 40 time and that
vertical jump in 32 years of doing this
we talked about 576 quarterbacks
he was number 576 it's not really what
my skill set is but fortunately for me
that's not what quarterbacking is about
either if you're going to go somewhere
and learn a little bit about
quarterbacking you might as well go the
bill wall school of quarterbacking which
Steve Mariucci is pretty good offensive
coach in his own right Giovani car mazi
quarterback of the flying dutchman of
Hofstra and he's the second quarterback
pick we had season tickets for the 49ers
for 25 years and we we were just hurt
it's just we kind of took it personally
if you will
Giovanni Carr mozzie the quarterback who
was ranked second on your board behind
Chad Pennington tell me where he fits in
this current quarterback situation well
he was
who is probably the best quarterback in
the draft as far as athletic ability
this is a fine athlete with a with a
real future we were sweating it out
about the last 10 picks that somebody
would taking then we heard later that
others were just about to take him when
we did so that was one of our better
choices we're in the draft world it was
the fifth round we already had three
quarterbacks at the time we had just
signed our number one quarterback to a
blood so for a lot of money remember
belcheck walking up to the board to sit
a while this Brady still on the board
one of the real troubling parts was the
Michigan situation and the fact that
really they were trying to replace him
as their starting quarterback and say
okay they don't really want this guy as
their starting quarterback they want
another guy well what's the problem here
and I was a little bit of a red flag
there the Patriots first five picks were
number 70 tackle Adrian Clem who started
just ten games for them in five seasons
running back junior Redman who finished
his career with less than seven hundred
rushing yards tackled Greg Robinson
Randall who lasted just three seasons
with the team tight end Dave's tishell
scheme and defensive lineman Jeff Marion
both never made the roster
and with the hundred and ninety-ninth
overall pick they selected a skinny
quarterback from Michigan named Tom
Brady there's nothing we could really do
about the whole Hansen situation we just
had to evaluate what we saw and and we
saw Tom time and again his senior year
start that game off well and then so
many times Tom would come back in and
rescue the situation and pull out the
win for Michigan against great
competition the biggest game he just
took his opportunities and tried to make
the most out of them
Brady made his share of rookie mistakes
I can't stand it brought it again holo
up and run it again Brady but he
possessed a veteran's confidence this
guinea bean pulled a young man walked
over to me and said hi mr. Kraft I want
to introduce myself I'm Tom Brady I said
I know who you are your sixth round
draft choice and I always remember he
looked me like a laser eye to eye and he
said that's right and I'm the best
decision this organization has ever made
I remember calling a jet and I said I
think I want to buy a house this is two
weeks in a training camp and he's like
are you nuts you know why don't you make
the tea first I'm like yeah I'm gonna
make the team don't worry about that
like let's just make sure we get a good
interest rate angle 37 days ago Steve
Young pulled the plug on the 49ers
20-year dynasty from Montana and young
we now have Garcia and Meyer but perhaps
the starter of the future is 23 year old
Giovanni car mazi
you can't really set your expectations
to play like it Joe Montana or Steve
Young but just the fact that they
considered me to be a guy who maybe
someday could adequately fill those
shoes I'm very proud of that and it's a
tremendous honor Geel look at me what's
the situation
what's what's the deal all right yeah
but what sit down in distance and how
much time you have left
don't look twenty two seconds okay all
right Gio is out of bounds one foot in
front of the numbers right there right
there
that's a difference between he making
five yards and 12 yards here versus here
put it where you want it this kid had
all the measurables
he was fast he was athletic he was
strong
he was smart played at Hofstra well you
know is Hofstra playing for the National
Champion but they had a lot of good
players coming out of there okay but it
became evident first game preseason game
the stage was maybe a little too big the
lights might be a little bit too bright
for him
two days after Joe Montana was inducted
into the Hall of Fame the 49ers were
hoping to see signs that Giovanni Kamoze
was the next Joe Martin
[Applause]
I'd be duly noted that his career begins
rather ingloriously with active x-act
the next Joe Montana is on the field
that day he just happened to play for
the other team
and I think we walked out of that game
feeling that we had probably taken the
right
taking the right guy I'm telling you
when you get out on the field and
another team let's knock your head off
they've got to be able to handle that
mentally and emotionally and some do
some love it and some that makes them
very nervous and they lose some
confidence to this day I believe that
Gio he got off on the wrong foot against
the Patriots in a preseason game and boy
I think some doubt crept in Kumasi never
appeared in a regular season game and
was released after two seasons
Brady would go on to win three Super
Bowls but as a rookie he would barely
make the roster as the Patriots fourth
quarterback the reason we didn't release
him was because we felt that we didn't
want to take a chance on losing offense
so we carried him as a fourth
quarterback even though he never played
and it was really a wasted roster spot
for the 2000 season but we felt that Tom
had enough potential if he could
continue to improve that's why we
carried him as an active player Tom
Brady fell in love with football the day
Dwight Clark made the catch as fate
would have it Clark had a chance to
draft Brady in 2000 as the GM of the
Cleveland Browns Clark did draft a
quarterback
it just wasn't Tom Brady Burgun win from
Southwest Texas State 47.8 completion
percentage this past year at the
Division one double-a level 13
interceptions only 12 touchdown passes
did you say that again 47% I don't know
I get my mic tape must be blocked out or
so if I can I can't figure this one out
guys we couldn't believe it
47% I mean Tommy had thrown it better
than 62% his senior year had thrown
twice as many TDs interceptions had come
back in games and the biggest stage with
hundred thousand people in stands and he
didn't get any respect
Spurgeon wins originally a Big Ten rival
of Brady at the University of Minnesota
but he soon transferred back home to
tiny Southwest Texas State
let's see the wind kid I don't remember
him out of college no she's pretty good
some reason I don't remember when you
were there University no was it really
as what quarterback
I didn't play big-time college football
that kind of deal I never really had a
great year we didn't win a whole bunch
of games Spurs I had a strong arm I mean
make no mistake about that but Tom Brady
was the best quarterback in my eyes and
that draft that year and then when I
came to Cleveland and played with some
of these quarterbacks I'm like wow
really these are our quarterbacks we got
here and Tommy went in a six-round
is just unbelievable just mind-blowing
makes us to see Spurgeon win that's it
but see you got to make that decision
earlier so he has a chance to hear it my
expectation was that I wasn't gonna play
my first year we had a number one pick
Tim Couch and we had tight Detmer played
a bunch of years been everywhere you
know I was told hey you know sit and
learn behind these two guys which at the
time I was okay with looking back it's
probably mistake to even have that kind
of thought process after an injury to
former number one pick Tim Couch
Spurgeon win was forced into action it
was trial by fire
a 40:47 thumping by the mm Ravens the
eventual Super Bowl champions
[Applause]
caught off guard yeah I was caught off
guard a little bit and like I said that
was my own my own fault talk to me about
your favorites cuz it yeah just talk
about where love under okay
okay just want to throw see get on TV
hood yeah Tom Brady had to wait a year
for his moment a moment he prepared for
the minute he was drafted a lot of
people don't believe in you has been is
obvious by you know six other
quarterbacks taken and 198 other pics
and I always thought you know what once
I get my shot I'm gonna be ready I'm
gonna really take advantage of that I
remember we were out in California for a
wedding and he was talking and he said
I'm a beat out Drew Bledsoe and I go we
caught on her coach I go coach this is
Drew Bledsoe Pro Bowl quarterback he was
I'm telling you and she starts throwing
that ball harder at me and harder I got
no gloves on he's ripping my hands to
de-stress because I'm gonna beat him not
you just watch right there good that's
it
that's the best series you've had in
camp we signed Damon Huard in 2001 has
the backup quarterback but by the end of
training camp
Tom beat Damon out and he really had a
better preseason than drew did damn what
held us back from making that decision
was just Tom's inexperience
and then of course by the end of the
second game Moe Lewis hit Bledsoe
[Applause]
and the rest was history and I knew when
he got hurt that there's no way Tommy
wasn't to get that job back to Drew Tom
Brady has been put into quarterback and
grew blood so taken out the story is
well known
Bledsoe never reclaimed the starting job
Brady never looked back
[Music]
[Applause]
Brady led the Patriots to the AFC East
title in 2001 twice feeding the Colts
and future rival Peyton Manning unlike
Brady Manning was a four-year starter in
college the best quarterback in
Tennessee history his successor was T
Martin one of the Brady six Martin that
ball going down the sidelines is
[Applause]
Martin did something at Tennessee that
Manning never did he won a national
championship
you're going undefeated and every week
somebody's giving you their best to beat
you you know you don't breathe you just
keep going and to finally be the best at
the end of the year it was an Oscar
filled but in the NFL he appeared in
just three games and completed only six
passes the NFL is such a bottom-line
business you know it's about production
you either get it done or you're not
there any longer and that reality is
saying pretty quickly
Tom Rainey didn't get to where he is
without a little luck
this
the players gonna be reviewed though but
after reviewing the play the quarterback
is going forward
[Applause]
if not for the Tuck rule the Patriots
would have lost instead it was a
coming-out party for the comeback kid to
snap the break
[Music]
[Applause]
then after an upset in Pittsburgh it was
on to the Super Bowl
I won't happen further they beat us but
I was happy for him I told him how much
I was proud of him actually gave my and
I wish them well
[Applause]
[Music]
with the score tied late in the game
many expected New England to run out the
clock
[Music]
[Applause]
now instead the Patriots gambled unpick
$1.99 you know in those last two minutes
I got a glimpse of what Tom Brady would
become he's a guy that know situations
too big 41 seconds left he's a guy that
can find ways to win games for you
setting up the winning field goal to
beat us
[Music]
[Applause]
even if it's against me and even if it's
him taking a Super Bowl ring from me I
couldn't help but appreciate what Tom
did in Super Bowl 36
[Music]
in the 2001 season Tom Brady led the
Patriots to one of the biggest upsets in
Super Bowl history a surprising feat for
the hundred and ninety-ninth pick in the
2000 draft but he wasn't even the first
quarterback in his draft class to get a
ring I end up getting picked up by the
the Ray Baltimore Ravens and we end up
going to see Russell obviously Greg got
a Super Bowl ring on which is awesome we
were prepared to take Chris Redmon in
the first round our scouts in particular
really loved the guy so when he kept
falling and kept falling and we were
able to pick him up in the third round
the room kind of exploded because we
felt like we were getting a late first
round value Redman played for his father
at Louisville male high school where he
set the national record for touchdown
passes in a season with 57 Redman
touchdown great pass again like Tom
Brady Redman was recruited by Michigan
as far as recruiting goes what's the
most memorable recruiting story you have
so far I probably say when I was at my
girlfriend's house and I had no idea it
was and all sudden they said telephone
and I and I was like hello and they said
this is a Michigan colony and I I had no
idea I mean they would call you at your
girlfriend's house so they get they kind
of go to extremes Redmon ended up
staying home at the University of
Louisville where he became their
all-time leading passer but he was just
another guy in Baltimore educated in the
nuances I can look here and see by
personnel and down a distance if there's
any tendency to what they're doing so
you just keep going chris Ragman was a
coach's son and we had high expectations
for Chris we thought he could process
the game a little bit faster than he did
and it just didn't turn out for him I
was out of the league for a couple years
actually selling insurance on them on
the streets it sounded good you had to
play a lot of golf be outside and be a
people person which I am but found out
that it's tough you know I found it
being harder than full
because I was uh I was not really good
at it you know it doesn't mean if I get
a chance to do the football thing I'm
gonna make sure that I make the best of
it in the spring of 2005 Redmond got
another chance at Raya the New England
Patriots
you know Chris's big strong kid you know
physically had had good talent but after
working with him for a period of time we
just felt that there were other options
[Music]
Badman was newly Brady's teammate Chad
Pennington was his rival Pennington was
the first quarterback taken in the 2000
Draft
181 spots before Tom Brady with the 18th
pick in the first round
the Jets select quarterback Chad
Pennington
[Applause]
[Music]
Pennington became a starter in 2002 led
the Jets to a division title beating out
Brady's Patriots
touchdown
but after that the rivalry was one-sided
Brady won seven of the next eight
meetings while injuries threatened
Penningtons career I had two shoulder
surgeries within eight months two
rotator cuff tears and I lost the zip on
the ball well obviously I said lob throw
that's dead slow Curt a slow knuckleball
oh I like that one you know a lot of
times you're coming back from an injury
with the body part that you don't have
to survive with it
shoulder quarterback that that's your
survival that that's that's your whole
livelihood all right here we go let's
get some yards here one on ride 35 on
one ready
in contrast the string bean from San
Mateo seemed invincible at one point
making a hundred and eleven consecutive
starts you know part of being on being a
quarterback being leaders being on the
field and you never want to see someone
else do your job like Brett Favre you
know he never came off the field never
even gave him a chance there any other
quarterbacks to get his job that's how I
feel I don't ever want anyone to ever
think man maybe someone can do Tom's job
better than he can do it in the 2003
season Brady led the Patriots to another
Super Bowl another last-minute
game-winning drive another Super Bowl
MVP award
that quarterback to me what separates
really good players from great players
executes while under pressure the
biggest gains the greatest stage I think
that's what playing quarterbacks all
about
[Applause]
[Music]
down
a year later Brady became the youngest
quarterback to win three Super Bowl
titles Marc Bulger was there for Brady's
first a third string quarterback on the
opposing side line another member of the
Brady six the next year we start out a
little rough you know the Super Bowl
hangover whatever they want to call it
Kurt end up breaking his finger
we were only five and coach March pulled
me ins office and said I'm gonna start
you you know the first game he played
was against the Oakland Raiders and he
went in and really tore it up in the
first few games that he played him and
he was really really spectacular and
good patience by Mark Boal absolutely he
threaded the needle unfortunately for me
it made me expendable nice nice it's
really nice huh
boy that's pretty that's beautiful how
about you huh just another reason why
you're the best
bonza reached thousand completions
faster than any quarterback in NFL
history and was twice voted to the Pro
Bowl I felt physically that he was as
gifted a thrower as any quarterback that
I've ever been around unfortunately I
don't think all the pieces were around
him long enough they were all getting
older some people had to be replaced and
I think that's kind of Mark's career
played great when he had the right guys
around him when he didn't he struggled
and you know it's the same for most of
us but not Brady in 2006 he made a
championship run with a receiving corps
made up primarily of castoffs
and newcomers Jackson I remember I was
playing with the Chargers and that's
when LT set to Rex we were just hot that
here he goes
we're gonna beat you guys this guy's
overrated this guy can beat by double
moves and everything that he said when
he left to go we're in trouble
sure enough two minutes ago he kind of
gave me a look and I go you gotta be
kidding me long and deep to the right
side it is God boom boom boom boom
Brady came up one game short of another
Super Bowl appearance but he would
return the following year with one of
the best seasons by a quarterback in NFL
history Tom Brady was driven to excel by
the six quarterbacks drafted in front of
him and the early push he received from
drew Henson in college the connection
with Henson is deepest after all
Brady's career was supposed to happen to
the can't-miss kid he would have been a
first round draft choice I mean he
showed the characteristics you look for
in an NFL quarterback then Tommy Brady
there's no way than any of us really
thought that tom was gonna become the
quarterback that he became the NFL like
Henson Brady was a two-sport prospect my
high schools known for baseball and I
love baseball as much better baseball
player going into high school you've
liked baseball
pitcher and catcher I love catching kind
of figured out back there fifties are
two mental he got drafted in the
eighteenth round but we were told had he
not committed to Michigan he would have
been a second or third round draft pick
Brady gave up baseball when he got to
Michigan drew Henson was drafted by the
New York Yankees and continued to play
both sports
when I had my summertime I just wanted
that played baseball the Yankees farm
system as opposed to other kids with
other summer jobs
[Applause]
it was just a natural he was good at
everything he did I mean he was
phenomenal that junior year he had 18
touchdowns and four interceptions and
maybe Ohio State in Columbus and said
wait
[Applause]
I remember Charlie Casserly who was the
general manager that time a Houston team
had said that if we give the number one
pick and henson's there and hasn't done
anything else we're taking true henson
number one in the draft but after three
years of back and forth
Henson decided to forgo his senior year
of football you can play baseball full
time at that moment when I was 20 years
old at 21 years old I really wanted to
be a pro baseball player and since
major-league career was short it's too
bad the way it turned out he was 1 for 9
in his baseball career
Yankees any hanky pinstripes Henson
decided to return to football in 2004 he
made his first start for America's team
on Thanksgiving they don't let you play
third base unless you can throw the ball
that's what he did as a baseball player
and obviously plenty of arm strength but
you have to be able to hit curveball
that's why number seven for the Cowboys
the game starts we take the first drive
we go down and score we go up seven
nothing but in the second quarter and up
throwing a pick that gets returned for a
touchdown
[Applause]
[Music]
and then he pulled me some big news from
the Dallas Cowboys Bill Parcells told me
at halftime he's seen about enough of
drew Henson in his rookie debut he said
the kid did some nice things but he
needs to go with the quarterback who
gives him the best chance to win the
ballgame players get a window of
opportunity and quarterbacks
specifically usually get the just one
Tommy the most of his situation in New
England he jumped in when Drew went down
led the team to a bunch of victories and
ran with it my opportunities seemingly
open and closed on the same day you know
these high expectations you're supposed
to be the next great Yankee you're
supposed to be the next great that's
enough but but then also the next great
cowboy right that is a lot of stuff to
deal with Tom Brady wasn't supposed to
be anything he had to work at him he was
skinny slow right too pretty to be a
football player but he was smarter than
everything and he studied night and day
day and night nobody works harder than
Tom Brady if you didn't play well on
Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday in
practice in college I didn't know if I
was gonna start the game so when I come
to the Patriots that's how I treat
Wednesday Thursday and Friday
nice patience on that nice patience by
the time Henson washed out in Dallas
Brady was a three-time Super Bowl
champion and Pro Bowl regular
and these unions are awful like idiots
here's the guy that's you know one of
the greatest quarterbacks in history yet
he still has any chip on his shoulder to
be the very best he wants to prove those
people that doubted him that they're
wrong airs it out downfield Randy Moss
is there
[Applause]
2007 was Brady's best he set the NFL
single-season record two touchdown
passes touchdown number 54 Tom Brady
he took the Patriots back to the Super
Bowl where they fell one game short of
the perfect season again they're talking
with Drew Henson was at Michigan with
Tom Brady Brady still doing it you're
retired at 30 but Brady is still doing
it you know it's like looking for a
pimple on Miss America here hey is there
anything wrong with this guy
no apparently not I'm resigned to the
fact that you know for forever that our
college days are intertwined so I
understand the questions and the
football baseball questions as well -
guitar devan Singh I'm certainly do I
try to think of new ways answer them
sometimes but I mean it is what it is
and and that's all it's part of my part
of my story and always will be
a year after Brady's Patriots went
sixteen and oh the Detroit Lions went
Owen sixteen it was Henson's last year
in the NFL he knew what he had been in
college so he brought him in just to
take a look at him to see if there was
anything left in there
there wasn't I'm 30 years old I'm done
playing probably sooner than I thought
that would be but at the same time you
know I get a jump start on this next
this next career so the applicant in the
sports broadcasting actually broadcast a
few games for ESPN three of this fall
doing color for the college football
stuff so sweet I don't have any regrets
every decision I made felt like at that
time was the right decision
looking back ten years I think that
patients would was something I've never
been great at if I just continue to play
baseball when I left school either that
or if I had just played my senior year
of football and chose to play football
after that I've no doubts I'd still be
playing great comeback guys it's gonna
be a great comeback from high school
benchwarmer to one of the NFL's most
celebrated players the rise of the
comeback kid is quite a story
but what sticks most in Tom Brady's mind
is the day he fell to 199 in the NFL
Draft we were led to believe that he's
can be drafted possibly second-round
probably third round they kept calling
border back names and we kept being
stunned
you see you know so-and-so get picked
and then there's nine more picks gone
until one team that you think was
interested you know that's get pretty
anxious
we're very distraught with each name
that was becoming worse and worse so I
remember being downstairs for like the
fourth round and and I came and gone and
the fifth round was coming and going and
all these other guys were getting picked
beginning of the sixth round he says I
gotta get out of here so he gets up
comes downstairs and grabs baseball bat
and starts walking up the street you
know I don't want to sit around and
leave my hopes get up or I'd rather just
take my mind off it
and finally he comes back into the house
and it's about the 22nd picked of the
sixth round and he says I I got to get
out of here the poor guy the tension in
the house is just really rough and and
it was hard I remember taking a walk
with my dad mom around the block
it was just a tough day you know I just
remember being there with my mom and dad
sorry about that you know they just were
so supportive of me and and they think
it as emotional as I do and uh you know
finally when the Patriots call it I was
so excited you know I was like I don't
have to be an insurance salesman you
know so my family was there we were all
excited and thank God I got I got picked
here he got drafted and we were true
poet of the six quarterbacks taken ahead
of Brady three played in the league in
Marc Bulger was Joe Flacco's back up in
Bolton
Chad Bennington underwent surgery on his
right shoulder for a fourth time the two
time Comeback Player of the Year hopes
to return for another season I don't
really want a major in that Comeback
Player of the Year award I don't want to
come back anymore I want to be here to
stay
Chris Redmon plans to return for his
fifth season as a backup in Atlanta I
was so bad at insurance I don't know if
I can do that again but uh you know
there's still a fever still left around
I guess I'll keep folding I don't know
what sounds Tom
Oh tee Martin is the wide receivers
coach for one of Tennessee's rivals
Kentucky as a kid some of my role models
and father figures in my life of my
football coaches when you're coming out
of it and the ball is coming you're
starting to drift a feel that supposed
to still attacking the ball coming down
here I knew from the time I started
playing that one day I wanted the coach
I'm gonna be all used or I'm gonna be
all you know all through the spray oh
yeah that came out the day too
[Music]
this is my son it's aspersion the fourth
I'll see a baseball or golf this might
be the next PGA Masters winner or thirty
game winner has we been a 30 game winner
spurgeon win is an energy trader in
Houston obviously the whole evaluation
process isn't perfect I mean this is
just living proof right I think you
figured it was a touchdown you were just
you were just you were banking on it
Giovanni Camozzi does not only tell us
and declined to be interviewed
it can't be standing there hoping he
lives two hours north of San Francisco
and describes himself as a yoga
exercising farmer he has five goats
hey this is Michigan weather right here
in 2010 three times Super Bowl champion
Tom Brady became the first unanimous MVP
in NFL history not bad for a California
kid it's a story that I tell guys that
can come from anywhere I can go
undrafted rather low and win a Super
Bowl
Tom Brady did it I'm proud to be part of
that 2000 quarterback draft class that
he's holding the torch - I feel like Tom
Brady's one those players where
everything came together in New England
but he would have had some some form of
success no matter where he went no
matter where he was taken in no matter
what team drafted and he was right in
our back yard and he probably always
wanted to be a 49er and that would have
been great a fact if we drafted him I
probably would still be coach were there
yeah we all missed on brady including
the Patriots cuz if they knew he was
gonna be that good
they wouldn't have waited till the sixth
round lacks great physical stature and
strength lacks mobility and ability to
avoid the rush
does not throw a really tight spiral
system type player who can get exposed
if forced to ad-lib
means they missed the most important
part part they didn't understand what
drives somebody we didn't open up his
chest and look at his heart we didn't
look at that I don't know if anybody did
and what kind of spine he has and
resiliency and all the things that are
making him really great right now this
game is a struggle Tom Brady embraced
that struggle more than anybody I've
ever known it's not by accident he got
to where he is and once he had a Super
Bowl two Super Bowls three Super Bowls
it doesn't matter he's still working
just as hard see as opposed to you give
me your front shoulder closed a little
six-inch step that bicep is close to
your ear as you can buy time Tolson done
who knows how many rings we'll have a
decade into his career the man taken
with pic 199 has achieved in all but
still feels he has plenty to prove it's
not really a chip on my shoulder it's
just that feeling that man maybe nobody
wants you when I watch myself play at
times I still don't think I'm very good
man you're still not very fast you know
you got a decent arm you know you made
some pretty bad reads on that day
that's what gets me up and motivates me
I always want to feel like I'm the best
quarterback for this team I want to earn
it every single day